.TH labelbuddy 1 "2021-02-23" "version 0.0.1"
.SH NAME
labelbuddy \- application for annotating text documents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B labelbuddy
[
.I OPTIONS
]...
[
.I FILE
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Without any options, the
.B labelbuddy
command will start the
.B labelbuddy
GUI to annotate documents in the database
.IR FILE .
If neither
.I FILE
nor
.B \-\-demo
is used,
.B labelbuddy
will open the last database that was opened, or if it is used for the first time,
~/labelbuddy_data.sqlite3.
With the option
.BR \-\-demo ,
.B labelbuddy
will open a temporary database pre-loaded with some example documents and labels.
.PP
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Output a usage message and exit.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-version
Display the
.B labelbuddy
version and exit.
.TP
.B \-\-demo
Open a temporary database pre-loaded with some example documents and labels.

.PP
The options below allow executing batch operations on the database without opening the
GUI. These actions will only be executed if the database
.I FILE
is specified explicitly.
.TP
.BI \-\-import\-labels " labelsfile"
Import labels contained in the (.json or .txt) file
.I labelsfile
into the database. Can be used several times.
.TP
.BI \-\-import\-docs " docsfile"
Import documents and annotations contained in the (.json, .jsonl, .xml or .txt) file
.I docsfile
into the database. Can be used several times.
.TP
.BI \-\-export\-labels " labelsfile"
Export labels in the database to the .json file
.IR labelsfile .
.TP
.BI \-\-export\-annotations " docsfile"
Export documents and annotations in the database to the (.json, .jsonl or .xml) file
.IR docsfile .
Some options described below control what is exported.
.TP
.B \-\-labelled\-only
When using the
.B \-\-export\-annotations
option, only export documents that contain at least one annotation.
.TP
.B \-\-include\-text
When using the
.B \-\-export\-annotations
option, include the document's text in the output. By default, it is not included
(and the documents can be identified from the MD5 checksum found in the output,
or from any user metadata that was imported with the documents).
.TP
.BI \-\-approver " name"
Use
.I name
as the annotation_approver.
If not specified, the output will not contain an annotation_approver.
.TP
.B \-\-vacuum
Repack the database so that it occupies a minimal amount of disk space (the
database can contain some empty pages if data has been deleted from it, that it
normally keeps and re-uses when new data is inserted). See SQlite3 documentation
for details. If this option is used, the other options (except
.B \-v
and
.BR \-h )
are ignored,
.B labelbuddy
vacuums the database and exits without doing anything else.
.SH AUTHOR
Jerome Dockes <jerome@dockes.org>
